Verses 8–11 are the four principal verses of Śrīmad Bhagavad-gītā. The ontological substance of the book is contained within these four essential verses beginning, “Ahaṁ sarvasya prabhavo: everything evolves from Me.”
In the Śrīmad Bhāgavatam (1.2.11), the three main conceptions of the Absolute are given as Brahma, Paramātmā, and Bhagavān. Brahma is the all-comprehensive aspect of the Absolute, Paramātmā is the all-permeating aspect of the Absolute, and Bhagavān is the personal conception of the Absolute. The word Bhagavān is generally defined as stated in the Viṣṇu-purāṇa (6.5.47):

ऐश्वर्य्यस्य समग्रस्य वीर्य्यस्य यशसः श्रियः
ज्ञानवैराग्ययोश्चैव षण्णां भग इतीङ्गना

aiśvaryasya samagrasya vīryasya yaśasaḥ śriyaḥ
jñāna-vairāgyayoś chaiva ṣaṇṇāṁ bhaga itīṅganā

“He who is full with all the six opulences of wealth, power, fame, beauty, knowledge, and renunciation is known as Bhagavān, the Supreme Lord.”
The characteristic of Bhagavān, as Lord Nārāyaṇ, is that all kinds of potencies are personally controlled by Him. However, Śrīla Jīva Goswāmī has given a special and particularly fine interpretation: Bhagavān means bhajanīya guṇa-viśiṣṭa. His nature is such that whoever comes into contact with Him cannot resist serving Him. No one can resist feeling moved to worship and adore His charming personality. As Lord Kṛṣṇa, He attracts the love of everyone.
Therefore, by the word sarvasya, Lord Kṛṣṇa indicates, “I am Svayam Bhagavān, the Supreme Lord Himself. I am the origin of not only Brahma and Paramātmā. I am also the origin of the Master of all potencies who commands the respect of everyone, Lord Nārāyaṇ of Vaikuṇṭha.
“Mattaḥ sarvaṁ pravartate: every attempt and movement begins from Me, including the methods by which everyone worships and serves Me in devotion.”

नायमात्मा प्रवचनेन लभ्यो
न मेधया न बहुना श्रुतेन ।
यमेवैष वृणुते तेन लभ्यस्
तस्यैष आत्मा विवृणुते तनूं स्वाम् ॥
(कठोपनिषद् १.२.२३)

nāyam ātmā pravachanena labhyo
na medhayā na bahunā śrutena
yam evaiṣa vṛṇute tena labhyas
tasyaiṣa ātmā vivṛṇute tanūṁ svām
(Kaṭhopaniṣad: 1.2.23)

“The Lord cannot by known by logic, intelligence, or extensive study of the scriptures. But He reveals Himself to one who is eager to serve Him and prays to Him for His grace.”
In this way, “Mattaḥ sarvaṁ pravartate: I am the first to reveal to the people, ‘Worship Me in this way.’ I appear as Guru, and through him, I worship Myself.”
In the Śrīmad Bhāgavatam (11.17.27), the Guru is described by the Lord as His own direct manifestation:

आचार्य्यं मां विजानीयान्नावमन्येत कर्हिचित् ।
न मर्त्त्य बुद्ध्यासूयेत सर्व्व देवमयो गुरुः ॥

āchāryaṁ māṁ vijānīyān nāvamanyeta karhichit
na martya buddhyāsūyeta sarva deva-mayo guruḥ
(Śrī Kṛṣṇa said to His devotee, Uddhava:) “You should know the bona fide spiritual master as My very Self. Gurudev is the embodiment of all the gods. Never dishonour him or find fault in him by ascribing any mundane conception of place, time, and circumstances to him.”
Furthermore, the Lord’s finest potency is Śrīmatī Rādhārāṇī. Of course, there are many other eternal associates, but the highest order of devotional service is represented in Śrīmatī Rādhārāṇī. The Lord is therefore saying, “My worship is shown by Me. I, as My finest potency, worship Myself. Iti matvā bhajante Mām: understanding this conception, the devotee will come to worship Me, always under the direction of My best worshipper—My finest potency and representation—Rādhārāṇī, or Gurudev. Crossing Her, the highest and most desirable form of service to Me is not possible.”
Rādhā-dāsyam, the servitorship of Śrīmatī Rādhārāṇī, is indicated here. Only those who are blessed with divine intelligence will be able to appreciate this, and not persons with self-acquired intelligence from this māyika quarter, the world of misconception. In this verse, the word budhāḥ refers to sumedhasaḥ as described in the Śrīmad Bhāgavatam (11.5.32), or persons of fine theistic intelligence arising from direct connection with the transcendental plane. The inner guidance and direction they receive is the outcome of sukṛti, divine merit acquired by the association of pure devotees. Bhāva-samanvitāḥ means rāga-samanvitāḥ—anurāga—love and attraction which is affinity, not by strictly following scriptural rules or drawn from any plane of loss and gain, but from bhāva, inner divine inspiration. Devotion of this high type is completely noncalculative (jñāna-śūnyā-bhakti), as described by Śrīla Rūpa Goswāmī in his Śrī Bhakti-rasāmṛta-sindhu (1.1.11):

अन्याभिलाषिता शून्यं ज्ञानकर्म्माद्यनावृतम् ।
आनुकूल्येन कृष्णानुशीलनं भक्तिरुत्तमा ॥

anyābhilāṣitā śūnyaṁ jñāna-karmādy anāvṛtam
ānukūlyena kṛṣṇānuśīlanaṁ bhaktir uttamā

“The highest devotion is that which satisfies Lord Kṛṣṇa, free from the coverings of any pursuits such as action and knowledge.”
The most rare and elevated stage of devotion is in the line of spontaneous devotion, known as rāga-mārg. In that line, guided by the qualified Guru, an elevated pure devotee may attain service to a leader of one of the groups of Kṛṣṇa’s personal associates who serve the Lord in His Pastimes in a relationship of friendship (sakhya-rasa), parenthood (vātsalya-rasa), or consorthood (madhura-rasa). In Vṛndāvan the Lord is served in spontaneous devotion by His friends headed by Subal Sakhā, and by His parental devotees headed by Nanda Mahārāj and mother Yaśodā. The gopīs headed by Lalitā and Viśākhā serve Him in consorthood. But amongst all His associates, and amongst all the gopīs, the highest order of divine loving service is rendered to the Lord by Śrīmatī Rādhārāṇī. Therefore, the acme of rāga-mārg is the service of Rādhārāṇī (Rādhā-dāsyam). This is the highest objective of the Rūpānuga Gauḍīya sampradāya, the followers of pure devotion as taught by Śrīla Rūpa Goswāmī Prabhupād, in the line of Śrī Chaitanya Mahāprabhu.