The Lord says, “The highest group of My servitors (whose devotion was described in the previous verse by the word ramanti) are those who are constantly engaged (satata-yukta) in My service in consorthood (madhura-rasa) with heartfelt love (bhajatām prīti-pūrvakam).” Then He says that He will give them further inspiration or inner instruction ‘by which they can come to Him’ (yena Mām upayānti te). When already in this and the previous verse the devotees’ service to the Lord has been described as eternal (by the words nityam and satata-yukta), now the statement that He will give them further inspiration ‘by which they can come to Him’ may appear to be redundant. Therefore, in the expression Mām upayānti te (“They will come to Me”), the word upayānti must be defined as parakīya-bhāvena—upapati. Pati means husband, and upapati means paramour.
In Vṛndāvan, Lord Kṛṣṇa is not considered a lawful husband, but He is the Lord of the heart, transcendental to even the husband (parakīya-rasa). Deceiving their husbands, the gopīs of Vṛndāvan unite with Kṛṣṇa. they do not allow a second party to come between them and Kṛṣṇa. They cannot allow the interception of social law or even scriptural regulation, because Kṛṣṇa’s position is absolute, and such a relationship is more relishable to Him. This is Vṛndāvan-bhajan*, and this is the meaning of upapati.

* विक्रीडितं व्रजवधूभिरिदञ्च विष्णोः
श्रद्धान्वितोऽनुशृणुयादय वर्णयेद्यः ।
भक्तिं परां भगवति प्रतिलभ्य कामं
हृद्रोगमाश्वपहिनोत्यचिरेण धीरः ॥
(भाः १०/३३/३९)

vikrīḍitaṁ vraja-vadhūbhir idañ cha viṣṇoḥ
śraddhānvito ’nuśṛṇuyād atha varṇayed yaḥ
bhaktiṁ parāṁ bhagavati pratilabhya kāmaṁ
hṛd-rogam āśv apahinoty achireṇa dhīraḥ
(SB: 10.33.39)

“A self-controlled person who possesses sincere faith in the divine Pastimes transcendentally enjoyed by Lord Kṛṣṇa with the gopīs (Rāsa-līlā), and who, having heard those divine Pastimes from the lotus mouth of the bona fide Guru constantly sings or narrates their glories—such a person swiftly achieves the most elevated form of pure devotion for the Lord, and is promptly able to ward off the heart disease of lust.”
In his writings, Śrīla Jīva Goswāmī has laid stress on the word dhīra, meaning ‘self-controlled.’ To hear these elevated subjects, one must enter into the culture of sense-control, otherwise he will be lost.

नैतत्समाचरेज्जातु मनसापि ह्यनीश्वरः ।
विनश्यत्याचरन्मौढ्याद्यथारुद्रोऽब्धिजं विषम् ॥
(भाः १०/३३/३०)

naitat samācharej jātu manasāpi hy anīśvaraḥ
vinaśyaty ācharan mauḍhyād yathārudro ’bdhi-jaṁ viṣam
(SB: 10.33.30)

“No one should ever even think of imitating this behaviour of the Supreme Lord and the gopīs. If out of gross foolishness anyone tries to imitate the Pastimes of the Lord, he will be destroyed, as though imitating Lord Śiva by drinking the poison which arose from the ocean.” (It is described in the Śrīmad Bhāgavatam that once the demigods and the demons jointly engaged in churning the ocean to produce nectar. Both nectar and poison were produced, and Lord Śiva, by his power, could hold the poison within his throat.)
“My relationship with them is independent of everything conceivable, including law, society, and the scriptures. It is most innate and natural, and it does not require any social or scriptural sanction. I say to them, ‘You may show formal respect to all these restrictions and live in the society. But from the heart of your heart, you are Mine.’ This is the special inspiration and insight I give those devotees (buddhi-yogam yena Mām upayānti te).
“Externally there are social and scriptural demands, but My position is over and above them. Veda is My instruction for the benefit of the masses who have deviated from Me, and society is also under the jurisdiction of those general instructions given to the people by Me. But My divine relationship with everything is intrinsic and independent. It does not require recognition from anyone. Such a relationship is the highest. It is the constant. It supercedes all law and society which are guided by the Vedas; rather, all the Vedas are searching for such a thing.”
Śrutibhir vimṛgyām (SB: 10.47.61): viśeṣa-mṛgya—the Vedas are searching after this ideal divine position. In the section of the Śrīmad Bhāgavatam which deals with Rāsa-līlā, the Vedas are begging forgiveness.
“We are generally supposed to give tidings of You, but we could not describe You as we now experience You here. Now we understand that we have committed an offence, because we could not distribute this Rāsa-līlā to the world.”
Like signposts, all the revealed scriptures are only showing the direction; but where, how? “We don’t know.” Only, “He may be available in this direction.”
Anywhere and everywhere, everything belongs to Him. For one who knows this, all possibilities of sense pleasure and exploitation are uprooted. For example, an unmarried woman may have the possibility of being approached by many, but there is less possibility for those who are married, because they are possessed by someone. Similarly, when we are able to know that everything is only for the satisfaction of Kṛṣṇa, then we shall realise that all our exploiting tendencies have vanished forever. Nothing will remain to be utilised for the pleasure of our sense-experience. It will be very deeply felt in our hearts that everything has its existence only for His satisfaction, and there is no room for any other exploitation.
We, too, are included there—our existence is also only for His satisfaction. Everything is meant for His divine Pastimes (līlā), and there is no possibility for any others’ pastimes. All are included in that one līlā. Encroachment will disappear when we learn the proper utility of everything. He is the owner, and His ownership is absolute. The scriptures, society, and law designate, “This is yours, that is another’s, or that belongs to a third party.” This is something like a temporary lease, but the permanent ownership is in all respects with Him. All others—possessor and property, master and servant—are relative, and only sanctioned by Him for the time being. He alone is the absolute owner, possessor, and enjoyer. Complete purification of our hearts is possible only when we arrive at such a conclusion. Everyone is thinking of themselves as many masters of many things, but this is all ‘heart disease’ (hṛd-rogam). This is all conceived in a diseased state of consciousness. In a healthy state, when the heart is quite wholesome, we can see the Supreme Whole, and we can see that everything is meant only for His satisfaction.