Of the two translations given above, the first is the most general interpretation of this verse. But if we appreciate pure, noncalculative devotion (jñāna-śūnyā-bhakti), the Lord’s statement here may again appear redundant and inconsistent.
When those high devotees are already admitted to be performing continuous and unadulterated service, and even above that, they are situated in the plane of pure love, spontaneous and automatic (rāga-mārg), how can it be harmonised that the Lord will now in the last stage destroy their ignorance (tamaḥ) born of misunderstanding (ajñāna-jam), by giving them knowledge (jñāna)? Jñān is only a cover—a futile, finite conception of the infinite Absolute (jñāna-karmādy anāvṛtam … bhaktir uttamā). When they have achieved devotion devoid of the covering of knowledge (jñāna-śūnyā-bhakti), how will they again have to return to that knowledge (jñāna)? In his commentary, Śrīla Viśvanāth Chakravartī Ṭhākur has mentioned that this knowledge is extraordinary (vilakṣaṇam), though he did not enter into specific detail. To clarify this point, we have given the following explanation:
Lamentation and delusion are generally known to be symptoms of the mode of ignorance (tamo-guṇa). In jñāna-śūnyā-bhakti, the elevated devotees who take Kṛṣṇa not as the Supreme God, but as a friend, son, husband, or lover, will come to experience lamentation and delusion, but this is only an outward appearance of ignorance. In fact, it is the pain of divine separation. They lament. “Where have You gone?”
In this verse, the Lord’s statement, teṣām evānukampārtham generally means “Fortunately for them,” or, “To favour them (I dispel their darkness, etc.).” But it may also be interpreted, “I want their favour. I aspire for the favour of those devotees of the highest order.”
The Lord also says to the Gopīs in the Śrīmad Bhāgavatam (10.82.44):

मयि भक्तिर्हि भूतानाममृतत्वाय कल्पते ।
दिष्ट्या यदासीन्मत्स्नेहो भवतीनां मदापनः ॥

mayi bhaktir hi bhūtānām amṛtatvāya kalpate
diṣṭyā yad āsīn mat-sneho bhavatīnāṁ mad-āpanaḥ

“In general, people want devotion to Me to achieve eternal life. To cross the limit of mortality and to have eternal life, they come to Me and worship Me. For these reasons they want My service, but fortunately for you, O gopīs, you have some natural affection towards Me. That will ultimately bring you to Me.”
This is the general meaning. However, in Śrī Chaitanya-charitāmṛta, Śrīla Kṛṣṇadās Kavirāj Goswāmī has drawn out the inner meaning of what Kṛṣṇa is saying to the gopīs, which is just the opposite:
“Through devotion, everyone wants Me to help them attain the highest position of eternal benefit, and if they have a connection with Me, they consider themselves fortunate. But I consider Myself fortunate because I have come in touch with the valuable affection that I found in your hearts. By My fortune, I have got your association.”
Therefore, here in Śrī Gītā, the Lord is saying, “Teṣām evānukampārtham: being conquered by the love of those unalloyed devotees, when I cannot tolerate their pain of separation, I at once come running to satisfy them, and I reveal to them with special light, special consciousness, ‘I have returned to you—see Me now.’ With powerful brilliance (jñāna-dīpena) I show them My presence when they are very much in need of Me, and I relieve their pain of separation.”
Ātma-bhāva-sthaḥ: He reveals Himself according to His devotee’s divine relationship with Him (rasa): to a friend, as a friend; to a mother, as a child; to a wife, as a husband; and to the sweethearts, as a paramour.
After Śrī Chaitanya Mahāprabhu left home and accepted the renounced order of life, sannyās, Mother Śachī could not tolerate the deep separation, and she began to cry. Śachī Devī was preparing excellent dishes, offering them to the Deity, and weeping. “Where is my Nimāi? He’s very fond of these curries—His favourite dishes, and Nimāi is not here.” Suddenly, Lord Chaitanya came and began to eat. Śachī Devī exclaimed, “Oh, Nimāi is eating!” and for the time being her separation was relieved. Moments later, she reconsidered, “Did I see Nimāi eating? But He is now a sannyāsī in Jagannāth Purī, so how could He have come here? Did I serve Him? There must be a mistake.” Then she examined the pots again to see if there was food there. Finding them empty, she began to conjecture whether even a dog or some other animal had come and eaten it. But during that moment, Nimāi had actually come, and Mother Śachī saw Him in broad daylight. That illumination is transcendental, and not the ‘knowledge’ (jñān) that is generally known in our vocabulary.
The acme of theism is parakīya-rasa. Parakīya means ‘another’s.’ In every divine relationship, the Lord captures all. In the whole of Vṛndāvan where everyone follows the path of love (rāga-mārg), this parakīya-rasa is infused. The friends of Kṛṣṇa sometimes say, “Some people say that Kṛṣṇa is a resident of Mathurā. They say He’s the son of Vasudev, and He will soon go to Mathurā. They say He is not our friend! Will we really lose His company? Then how will we be able to live in this jungle and herd the cows?” They experience this apprehension—“We may lose Him at any time.” This intensifies their friendly service to Him.
Similarly, Mother Yaśodā thinks, “Some say that Kṛṣṇa is not my son, He’s Devakī’s son. What is this? I won’t admit this. He’s my child!” This idea enhances Yaśodā’s affection for Kṛṣṇa: “I may lose Him? Then how shall I live?” Therefore, the parakīya-rasa stresses the rarity of Kṛṣṇa’s relationship, because the possibility of losing His company is always in the background. But the highest intensity of service is to be found in the madhura-rasa (consorthood) group. In the other rasas, there is the idea of suspense that He may ‘go away,’ but in the consorthood relationship in the divine abode of Vṛndāvan, the consorts cross the direction of the scriptures and the society, which guide everyone to remain as husband and wife (svakīya). Parakīya (‘another’s’) has been accepted in the science of devotion as the highest conception, above the socially and scripturally sanctioned svakīya (‘one’s own’).
Parakīya or paramour relationship nourishes the Pastimes of Kṛṣṇa by deceiving one who claims ownership over another, such as a husband over a wife, or a parent over a child. The normally accepted relationship of svakīya is commonplace, but to cross the jurisdiction of the scriptures and society, as a paramour, means a greater risk as if to commit sin. Thus, this relationship is very rare, and rarity enhances its intensity and value. The idea of deceiving the ‘possessor’ to favour the ‘non-possessor’ (in the spiritual sense) is a beautiful, ornamental conception. Actually, in Kṛṣṇa’s case there cannot be any state of paramourship, because in truth He is the owner of everything. However, the divine arrangement is fashioned in this way to enhance the devotee’s internal devotion for the Lord, just as food appears more tasteful when hunger is present.
In Vaikuṇṭha, the nature of the worship of Lord Viṣṇu is gorgeous, majestic, reverential, and awe-inspiring. But above that, in the highest conception, Godhead is humanlike in form and nature. It is stated in Śrī Chaitanya-charitāmṛta in the teachings to Sanātana Goswāmī:

কৃষ্ণের যতেক খেলা,	সর্ব্বোত্তম নরলীলা,
নরবপু তাহার স্বরূপ ।
গোপবেশ, বেণুকর,	নবকিশোর, নটবর,
নরলীলা হয় অনুরূপ॥
কৃষ্ণের মধুর রূপ শুন সনাতন ।
যে রূপের এক কণ,	ডুবায় সব ত্রিভুবন,
সর্ব্বপ্রাণী করে আকর্ষণ ॥

kṛṣṇera yateka khelā,	sarvvottama nara-līlā,
nara-vapu tāhāra svarūpa
gopa-veśa, veṇu-kara,	nava-kiśora, naṭavara,
nara-līlā haya anurūpa
kṛṣṇera madhura-rūpa śuna sanātana
ye rūpera eka kaṇa,	ḍubāya saba tribhuvana,
sarvva-prāṇī kare ākarṣaṇa

“The highest form of Godhead is Kṛṣṇa, who plays in His eternal divine Pastimes like a human being. An ever-youthful cowherd boy of Vṛndāvan, the best of dancers, He enjoys His Pastimes, always playing His flute. His beauty is so charming and sweet that the whole universe is flooded by even the tiniest atom of it, and all beings are attracted irresistibly to Him.”
He is approachable by all. We can find God nearest of all—in a human feature. It has been explained how Kṛṣṇa’s form of human feature is the highest form of the Absolute, according to the calculation of ecstasy (rasa), which is the common standard of measurement of the whole scope of the Infinite. By the development of śānta-, dāsya-, sakhya-, vātsalya-, and madhura-, and then parakīya-rasa (tranquillity, servitude, friendship, parenthood, consorthood, and then paramour relationship), this is scientifically proven, without whimsical or blind faith. If we follow the line of Rūpānuga-bhajan (devotion following the line of Śrīla Rūpa Goswāmī) which originates from Śrī Chaitanyadev, this scientific basis can be appreciated. The previous Āchāryas have left comprehensive teachings for us on how to follow, conceive, and attain all these things.