Mahābhay, the greatest fear, is generally considered to be the fear of repeated birth and death in this world. But mahābhay also refers to sāyujya-mukti, the liberation of merging into the impersonal non-differentiated consciousness of Brahmaloka, Virajā, or a kind of impersonal samādhi. Renunciation alone leads to sāyujya-mukti, the cessation of birth and death, but not to a life in the positive plane. It takes one to a permanent ‘burial’ in Brahmaloka. The demon of mukti will devour one wholesale, and therefore it is even more dangerous than this ordinary life of action and reaction. Mukti means a strike in the organic system, so it must be avoided. For example, to either ignore duties in a factory or to declare a strike by cessation of duties are both abnormal.
Bhukti, exploitation, and mukti, renunciation, are both fearsome ghosts. Therefore, here, mahābhay means the great apprehension of falling prey to both the ghost of exploitation leading to birth and death, as well as the ghost of committing suicide by merging into the impersonalism of incarceration in Brahmaloka—fear of both bhoga-bhūmi, the land of exploitation, and tyāga-bhūmi, the plane of renunciation. It is stated in the(1.2.22, 1.1.9):

भुक्तिमुक्तिस्पृहा यावत् पिशाची हृदि वर्त्तते ।
तावद्भक्तिसुखस्यात्र कथमभ्युदयो भवेत् ॥

bhukti-mukti-spṛhā yāvat piśāchī hṛdi vartate
tāvad bhakti-sukhasyātra katham abhyudayo bhavet
“The ecstasy of devotion to Kṛṣṇa will never appear in a heart that is haunted by the ghosts of exploitation and renunciation.”

अन्याभिलाषिता शून्यं ज्ञानकर्म्माद्यनावृतम् ।
आनुकूल्येन कृष्णनुशीलनं भक्तरुत्तमा ॥

anyābhilāṣitā śūnyaṁ jñāna-karmādy anāvṛtam
ānukūlyena kṛṣṇānuśīlanaṁ bhaktir uttamā

“The highest devotion is that which is cultivated for the satisfaction of the Supreme Lord Kṛṣṇa, with no desire except to serve Him, and divested of all external attempts such as worldly action, knowledge in search of the impersonal Absolute, or the meditational attempt to become one with God.”
Only the Supreme Lord is abhay, beyond apprehension. Therefore nothing but participation in His service can free one from the ghosts of exploitation and renunciation, bhukti and mukti. If we subtract bhukti and mukti, then only positive bhakti, devotion, is the remainder. Therefore, without devotion, everything is mahābhay, great danger.